# FCG-Outerspace-Bounce-
This application named ‘OUTERSPACE’ inspired by movie ‘Passenger’ and ‘Alien vs Predator’ is made in 2 weeks. 
The windowing system, audio system and key function is implemented by Pygame while others object shown in this application is fully drawn by Pyopengl using python object-oriented framework. Generally, there are four main classes which are ‘BounceBall’, ‘BounceProps’, ‘BounceMap’ and BounceMain’. External library such as numpy and math is imported for mathematical calculation. The player is turned into a white outline sphere that trying to escape from the spaceship in this game. There are 3 levels in total and there will be monsters waiting to stop player from escaping the spaceship.
‘BounceMap’ has all levels of map features and positions for the entire game. It will draw out the map according to the current level and position of player. Then, it will update the whole map to the ‘BounceBall’ class for collision detection purposes by level.
‘BounceBall’ is responsible to draw the ball according to player movement and redraw when level upgraded or restart. Collision between wall and player is calculated, thus movement is restricted within the map by boundary set in map. Bouncing ball model is implemented on the ball which makes the ball movement more realistic in term of physic concepts.
‘BounceProps’ contains all the monsters, powerup, checkpoint and other drawing beside map and ball. The monsters are the alien egg, black hole and shuriken while the powerup and checkpoint are the heart and key which appeared in different levels. Collision detection is set between all the objects drew and the ball so that further actions such as score update or restart level can be done. For instance, the heart can upgrade player life by one and checkpoint item is a must to pass through the door in spaceship. If player get collided with monsters, the game will restart by deducting one life. Besides that, the spaceship corridors along the map are drawn and as well as the movement of mobile monsters and spaceship doors are updated here.
‘BounceMain’ is mainly handling the user interface where text rendering, camera view, windowing system, key function and system manipulation implemented here. There are special effects added to the loading page and menu page where player get chances to view the entire spaceship and there are flying stars in the journey of escaping from spaceship. Player can only start game from level 1 and the system will update the game level right after player pass through a boundary set. Background music and most of sound effect is called here and player can mute it in the game.
